
## Using the Compiler

*Skip to [Using the Library](#using-the-library) if you only want to use Kurt to make your own awesome Python stuff*

    Scratch project  <--->  folder structure of scripts and images

If you install using easy_install, pip, or setup.py, the script `kurtc.py` should automatically be in your path. Try running it from the command line:

    $ kurtc.py

You should see a screenful of help text. If not, try installing again using options 1 or 2. Alternatively, the script can be found under `util/kurtc.py`.

There are two commands: `compile`, and `decompile`.


### Decompile

    scratch project -> folder structure with project contents

Exports all the scripts, images, variables, lists in a Scratch project to separate files, with a folder for each sprite. Puts everything in a folder named `<project name> files`. (Think a Scratch [project summary](#note1) on steroids.)

Just pass the path to your project file:

    $ kurtc.py decompile tests/game.sb

And get a folder structure a bit like this:

    game files/
        00 Stage/                                   [each sprite has its own directory]
            backgrounds/
                01 background1.png
            backgrounds.txt
            lists/
            scripts/
            variables.txt
        01 ScratchCat/
            costumes/
                01 costume1.png                     [export to PNG or JPG format files,
                02 costume2.jpg                      import from most formats]
            costumes.txt                            [costume details, rotation centers]
            lists/                                  [.txt file for each list]
            scripts/                                [.txt files: block plugin syntax]
                01 when green flag clicked.txt
            variables.txt                           [variable = value, one per line]
        notes.txt
        thumbnail.png

Most of the subfolders are optional when compiling.

Notes:

* Scripts are in [Block Plugin](wiki.scratch.mit.edu/wiki/Block_Plugin) ("scratchblocks") syntax.
* `costumes.txt` is entirely optional — you should probably ignore it.
* Lists have one item per line.
* Variable files have one variable per line, like `variable = value`.
* Any un-numbered files/folders will be added last.


### Compile

    folder structure -> scratch project

Takes a folder structure generated by decompile as an argument, and compiles all the images and scripts back into a .sb file.

Try decompiling the provided `game.sb`, edit one of the scripts, and then compiling it!

Again, just pass it the path to your project folder:

    $ kurtc.py compile "tests/game files"


### Notes & Restrictions

* Sprite information such as position isn't saved — so make sure you set it in a "when green flag clicked" script (which is probably good practice anyway).

* Parser SyntaxErrors currently report line numbers -2 the actual file. This is a bug.

* Take care with the "length of" block: strings aren't dropdowns, lists are

        length of [Hello!]      // string
        length of [list v]      // list

* Variable names (and possibly other values, such as broadcasts) **can't**:

    * contain special identifiers (like `end`, `if`, etc.)
    * have trailing whitespace
    * contain special characters, rather obviously: like any of `[]()<>` or equals `=`
    * be named after a block, eg. a variable called "wait until" ([a screenshot](http://cl.ly/image/3z0X3O1O0m1w))




## Using the Library

**Getting Started** | [Scripts](#scripts) | [Images](#images)

Here's a quick getting started — grab a Python interpreter (Python's `>>>` prompt — just type `python` into your terminal, or load up IDLE), and have a go!

You'll probably just want to use the provided `ScratchProjectFile` and `ScratchSpriteFile` classes. Load them by passing the path to the file to their constructor and use their provided `.save()` methods.

You can import just these classes them using:

    >>> from kurt.files import *

Load a file (you'll find a preview file, `game.sb`, saved in the `tests` directory; but feel free to try it with any Scratch project file).

Just pass in the absolute or relative path to the file:

    >>> project = ScratchProjectFile("tests/game.sb")

You can reload the file at any time with `.load()`.

Inspect project:

    >>> project.info['author']
    u'blob8108'
    >>> project.stage
    <Stage(Stage)>

List fields on object:

    >>> project.stage.fields.keys()
    ['volume', 'hPan', 'sprites', 'lists', 'name', 'obsoleteSavedState',
    'color', 'media', 'variables', 'bounds', 'submorphs', 'zoom', 'isClone',
    'flags', 'costume', 'scripts', 'owner', 'tempoBPM', 'vPan', 'properties', 'sceneStates']

Access fields using dot notation:

    >>> project.stage.tempoBPM
    60
    >>> project.stage.sprites
    [<Sprite(ScratchCat)>]

List sprites:

    >>> project.sprites             # alias for `project.stage.sprites`
    [<Sprite(ScratchCat)>]
    >>> cat = project.sprites[0]
    >>> cat.name
    'ScratchCat'

Can also index sprites list by name:

    >>> cat = project.sprites['ScratchCat']

Most of the objects you're interested in, like `Stage` and `Sprite`, inherit from `UserObject`. You can use `.fields.keys()` to see the
available fields on one of these objects.

`FixedObjects` like `Rectangle` have a `.value` property to access their value.

    >>> project.stage.bounds
    Rectangle([0, 0, 480, 360])
    >>> project.stage.bounds.value
    [0, 0, 480, 360]

Inline objects, such as `int` and `bool`, are converted transparently to their Pythonic counterparts. `Array` and `Dictionary` are converted to `list` and `dict`, too.

Make changes:

    >>> cat.vars # {u'vx': 0.0}
    >>> cat.vars['vx'] = 100

Save:

    >>> project.save()

Now re-open the project with Scratch!

Everything should, of course, work perfectly; if you do have any problems, please send me an email or [file an issue on Github](https://github.com/blob8108/kurt/issues/new), and I'll take a look! (:


### Scripts
A list of scripts can be found on the `scripts` property of both sprites and the stage.

    >>> cat.scripts
    [Script(Point(23, 36.0), [
        Block('EventHatMorph', 'Scratch-StartClicked'),
        Block('xpos:', 0),
        Block('doForever',  [
                Block('doIf',
                    Block('keyPressed:', 'right arrow'),
                    [
                        Block('changeVariable', u'vx', <#changeVar:by:>, 2),
                    ]),
                Block('doIf',
                    Block('keyPressed:', 'left arrow'),
                    [
                        Block('changeVariable', u'vx', <#changeVar:by:>, -2),
                    ]),
                Block('changeVariable', u'vx', <#setVar:to:>,
                    Block('*',
                        Block('readVariable', u'vx'),
                    0.80000000000000004),
                ),
                Block('changeXposBy:',
                    Block('readVariable', u'vx'),
                ),
            ])])]

Use the `to_block_plugin` method to print them nicely:

    >>> print cat.scripts[0].to_block_plugin()
    when green flag clicked
    set x to (0)
    forever
        if <key [right arrow v] pressed?>
            change [vx v] by (2)
        end
        if <key [left arrow v] pressed?>
            change [vx v] by (-2)
        end
        set [vx v] to ((vx) * (0.8))
        change x by (vx)
    end

This is identical to `scratchblocks` format, so you can paste them straight into the Scratch forums or wiki. [See here](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/9598124/blocksplugin.html#when%2520green%2520flag%2520clicked%250Aset%2520x%2520to%2520%280%29%250Aforever%250A%2520%2520%2520%2520if%2520%253Ckey%2520%255Bright%2520arrow%2520v%255D%2520pressed%3F%253E%250A%2520%2520%2520%2520%2520%2520%2520%2520change%2520%255Bvx%2520v%255D%2520by%2520%282%29%250A%2520%2520%2520%2520end%250A%2520%2520%2520%2520if%2520%253Ckey%2520%255Bleft%2520arrow%2520v%255D%2520pressed%3F%253E%250A%2520%2520%2520%2520%2520%2520%2520%2520change%2520%255Bvx%2520v%255D%2520by%2520%28-2%29%250A%2520%2520%2520%2520end%250A%2520%2520%2520%2520set%2520%255Bvx%2520v%255D%2520to%2520%28%28vx%29%2520%2A%2520%280.8%29%29%250A%2520%2520%2520%2520change%2520x%2520by%2520%28vx%29%250Aend).

See [Scripts](https://github.com/blob8108/kurt/wiki/Script) on the kurt wiki.


### Images
You can find costumes under a sprite's `costumes` property (similarly for stage `backgrounds`).

    >>> cat.costumes # [<ImageMedia(costume1)>, <ImageMedia(costume2)>]
    >>> image = cat.costumes[0]

Save to an external file:

    >>> image.save("scratch_cat.png")



